---
tag: taki_en important_en
important: present perfect/continuous
subject: english
lesson: Present Perfect, Present Perfect Continuous, and Other Tenses
teacher: Malek Chaima
---

date: 2023-08-08
lesson: Present Perfect, Present Perfect Continuous, and Other Tenses
teacher: Malek Chaima

[[english]]
---
## document:
[[Session 3_Present Perfect, Present Perfect Continuous, and Other Tenses..pdf]]
## notes:

# When do we use the Present Perfect?
  -  An action that started in the past, is still continuing until the present
and may continue in the future.
**e.g.**: They *have lived* in Italy ***since*** 2005.

- An action performed during a period that is still ongoing.
**e.g.**: We * have studied* English ***twice this month***.

- An action that happened repeatedly during an unspecified period
between the past and the present.
**e.g.**: We *have gone* to Spain many times.

- An action that has finished in the very recent past
**e.g.**: I *have ** just** completed* my assignment.

- An action that happened at an unknown time between the past and the
present.
**e.g.**: They *have travelled* to several countries.



# How do we form the Present Perfect ?
We form the ***present perfect*** with: **Subject + have/has + past participle**.

---

# When do we use the Present Perfect Continuous ?
-  An action that started in the past and is still continuing until the
present.
**e.g.**: I *have been studying* French intensively ***for the past two weeks***.
-  A **temporary** action that may change.
**e.g.**: She *has been working* part-time ***recently*** to gain experience.

# How do we form the Present Perfect Continuous ?
We form the present ***perfect continuous*** with: **Subject + have + been + -ing form**.

